# Investment Assignment

## Introduction
This is the Assignment for the Investment case study for Spark Funds. **Spark Funds**, an asset management company. Spark Funds wants to make investments in a few companies. The CEO of Spark Funds wants to understand the **global trends in investments** so that she can take the investment decisions effectively.

## Business Understanding and Domain (CRISP-DM Step #1)
- Spark Funds wants to invest **between 5 to 15 million USD** per round of investment
- Spark Funds wants to invest **only in English-speaking countries** because of the ease of communication with the companies it would invest in
- Spark Funds wants to invest where most other investors are investing. This pattern is often observed among early stage startup investors.

## Objective
The objective is to identify the **best sectors, countries, and a suitable investment type** for making investments. The overall strategy is to invest where others are investing, implying that the 'best' sectors and countries are the ones 'where most investors are investing'.

## Data Sources
- Company Profiles (Crunchbase)
- Investment Rounds Data (Crunchbase)
- Category Mapping
- English-speaking Countries (Wikipedia)

## Data Understanding (CRISP-DM Step #2)
To understand the shape of the data and its cleanliness, we perform a couple of preliminary checks on the *companies* and *rounds2* dataset.
It seems that the common key between companies and rounds, is the permalink. Thus, this is chosen as the primary key for identification.

---------CODE---------

We'd see that the number of unique companies in the *companies* dataset and the *rounds* dataset are not the same number, implying that the reference company data is malformed or missing.

Listing out the companies which were in *companies* but not in *rounds2* (and vice versa) was done, and then the patterns of mismatch were observed by looking at the mismatches manually.

### Pattern 1
This is the most common type of malformed data. In this the permalink in the *companies* dataset is malformed, mostly because it uses Mandarin characters. The corresponding company name is well-formed. The corresponding permalink in the *rounds2* data set is also well-formed.

### Pattern 2
This is the second most common type of malformed data. In this case, the permalinks for a company are malformed in different ways in both the *companies* and *rounds2* dataset, and thus do not match. This occurs because of Mandarin characters in the company name not translating correcting to the permalinks. The solution is to regenerate the permalink from the (well-formed) company name and use that in both the *companies* and *rounds2* dataset.

### Pattern 3
The third common pattern of malformed data is where the *companies* dataset has the correctly generated permalink, but the corresponding permalink in the *rounds2* dataset is malformed.

The *mappings* dataset was also not clean. A lot of sector names had their names mangled, with the two letters *na* replaced with *0*.

There were also several sectors in the *companies* dataset which did not have mappings to the main sector in the *mappings* dataset.

## Data Preparation (CRISP-DM Step #3)

For **Pattern 1**, the permalinks in the *rounds2* dataset were copied over to the *companies* dataset, after using suitable search patterns.
----------- CODE --------------------

For **Pattern 2**, the permalinks were regenerated by sanitising the (well-formed) company name and copied over to the *companies* and *rounds2* dataset.
----------- CODE --------------------

For **Pattern 3**, the permalinks in the *companies* dataset were copied over to the *rounds2* dataset, after using suitable search patterns.
----------- CODE --------------------

In all these scenarios, the corrected permalinks were stored in new columns (*company_permalink_lowercase* for *rounds2* and *permalink_lowercase* for *companies*), without touching the data in the original columns.

As part of the data preparation, all permalinks were made lowercase, because the case was inconsistent within and across the *companies* and *rounds2* datasets.

For the missing sector mappings, we added the missing sectors and their main sector classification manually, after the dataset was loaded.

The tests for checking whether there were any unique company mismatches were run again after the data cleanup.

------------ CODE ----------------------

## Constraints

The *companies* and *rounds2* datasets were then joined on the permalink column. Spark Funds' constraints on linguistic preferences (English-speaking countries) were then applied.

The median investmnts in the four investment types (Seed, Angel, Venture, Private Equity) were then compared, and the one which fits Spark Funds' constraints is chosen. As it turns out, this appears to be Venture funds.

----------- CODE --------------------

## Country Analysis
The top 9 most heavily invested countries are selected, based on the amount raised, using the constraint of investment amount (USD 5 million - USD 15 million).

----------- CODE --------------------

The aaggregate stats for the top 3 countries for investment amount and number of investments are calculated.
----------- CODE --------------------

The breakdown of these stats by sector per country is also done separately.

----------- CODE --------------------

Finally, the questions around highest-invested company in the top 2 sectors, with the relevant plots are created.

----------- CODE --------------------
